In this lecture we take a look at constructors.
So I'm only going to explain this using slides because I'll show an example of this in the next couple
of lectures.
So what is a constructor?
A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.
The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.
It can be used to set initial values for object attributes.
It will be named identical to the class name as shown on Public House.
So if we look at the diagram on the right hand side, I have a class called House and it has free private
fields of type integer and beyond doors.
So number doors.
Number windows.
A Number bedrooms.
The area highlighted with the red rectangle is the constructor.
So note the name Public House.
So it's identical to the class name and in the brackets on provide in parameters.
So int so integer doors, integer integer windows and integer bedrooms.
I'm name using in those parameters to assign the fields the values.
So if I want an object creation, pass an integer doors to equal five, an integer windows four and
bedrooms free.
Five will be assigned to the numbers.
Door filled.
This will equal five.
This will equal four.
And it's equal.
Free.
So.
Wait.
How we can set attributes, object creation.
So initializing an object.
When we initialize an object using the class blueprint, blueprint will be asked to provide values by
the constructor.
The values provided will be unique to the object instance.
So please don't worry if this is confusing.
I'll give a demonstration in the objects and classes lectures which are up next.
Just for now.
Remember, a constructor allows us to set values for object attributes.